Okay,
guys.
And welcome back,
right?
Never can have a look at this one.
Which is the You might pick this on genitals and f 11.
I'm double clicking sheet 11.
You might pick this on,
come to here and pick worksheet on the game.
We're going to choose the activate some scroll way upset up and pick.
Activate,
and no,
I can delete this.
Now.
Whips,
as you may well know,
each of the worksheets within a workbook has an index number.
So the very first sheet in the order in which they appear will be sheet one.
The second sheet is sheet to and on and on and on until you get all of the worksheets.
Okay,
so the first England do set up a variable.
So say DMX is into Jim introduced into jump.
There we go on never don't want to do is I want to capture the number of work sheets that
are in this particular workbooks on to say X equals worksheets dot groups dot can't.
And if i f eight over that and hover over X,
you can see that we have what,
14 worksheets in this particular workbook.
Ok,
so now we know how Maney worksheets we have to play with The next thing we're gonna do You
say sheets open brackets now,
rather than calling the sheep bites VB name or its tab name,
we're gonna call it by its index number.
So we know that there are 14 sheets or what we want to do is randomly selects a number
between one and 14.
And for that,
we're going to call the worksheet function Rand between which I'm sure you're familiar with
some there saying application don't.
We're sheet on worksheet functions.
They go.
Don't try not to leave Spaces Allen around between because that's what we want to do on our
lower bound is one on the upper bound is a number of worksheets that we've just counted.
So x on the close brackets on the close brackets.
So I'm gonna hit dot select so well,
that's going to do on the worksheet activate.
So when the user clicks on the tab is gonna count the number of worksheets we have randomly
pick a number between one and however many sheets we have and select that cheat.
So we have a one in 14 chance of clicking this button and actually ending up on the sheet.
So let's give it a go.
No,
that most definitely didn't work.
We went to workbook Change one.
So you might pick this?
No,
we went to this one.
So if you fancy playing up one of your colleagues,
drop that into one of their worksheets and you will have endless fun.
Only kidding.
Please don't do that.
And I'll see you in the next lecture.